Observe published contributions owned by this home's durable task records.

Usage:
  fm-contributions.sh snapshot <input.json> [--all]
  fm-contributions.sh poll
  fm-contributions.sh pending
  fm-contributions.sh verdict <task> <url> <judged-head> <source-url> <captain|fleet|maintainer|nobody> <summary>
  fm-contributions.sh ack <task> <url> <event-token>
  fm-contributions.sh arm [--if-owned]

snapshot is read-only and never contacts a forge. Its input is the canonical
fleet snapshot's backlog/tasks pair; --all adds rows for supervisor inspection.
Every URL explicitly linked by a structured backlog row or a task's pr= is
owned. Previously observed URLs remain in data/<task>/contributions.json after
endpoint teardown. Repository-wide PR discovery never establishes ownership.
GitHub PRs and issues are supported; other forges remain visibly unmeasured.

This script owns fm-contributions.v1: one atomic file per durable task with
task and records[]. Each record contains url, kind, checked_at, error,
observation, verdict, seen event tokens, pending events, and notified tokens.
observation is one coherent forge read (a PR head is rechecked after fetching
checks/reviews). Checks are normalized by name, id, started_at, status and
conclusion; projection picks the newest attempt per distinct name. The last
observation's lane names also disclose a lane absent from the next head.
A verdict records the EXACT judged head, source URL, actor and summary. The
actor is exactly one of captain, fleet, maintainer or nobody; any other value
is refused. A comment's arrival time never supplies its judged head. Record a
prose verdict only after its source identifies that head; otherwise leave it unbound and
triage its signal. Formal reviews carry GitHub's own commit_id. Neither kind
can grant merge authority. Captain-actor prose requires an existing live hold;
an eligible merge remains a captain call, never an automatic forge action.

poll consumes fm-fleet-snapshot.sh --contribution-input, a local-only read,
and spends at most FM_CONTRIBUTIONS_BUDGET seconds on forge reads (default 20,
1..25). A configured value rides the generated check shim into watcher runs
and is cut down to the watcher's own per-check bound (FM_CHECK_TIMEOUT,
default 30, read from the poll's environment because the watcher runs it as
a direct child) with a three-second margin. Every read is capped at five
seconds. A read a bound stopped answered nothing and is unmeasured, never a
forge failure: that is the statuses fm-timeout-lib.sh reports as its own
bound, 124 and the kill's 137, plus TERM's 143, INT's 130 and HUP's 129,
which reach the poll when the signal hit the read alone - possible because
every bounding mechanism runs the read in its own process group. Every other
status is unavailable evidence, including a client death by some other
signal such as SIGSEGV's 139. A pull observation has three
dependent waves: core, six independent reads, then the closing head read;
an issue has two waves. Before starting a URL, poll reserves the smaller of
the effective budget and 15 seconds for those waves. URLs needing forge
reads are sorted by URL and rotated by the current five-minute epoch bucket
modulo their count, without stored scheduling state or freshness-based
reordering. Terminal URLs settle separately before the forge budget starts
and consume no rotation slots.
A deliberately smaller configured budget remains bounded and may be
unmeasured, rather than being mislabeled unavailable. A URL on an
unsupported forge is never read and stays unmeasured for the same reason.
Each distinct URL is
attempted at most once per poll and its observation applied to every owner.
A final observation applies
to every owner without another forge read. When the budget refuses a read
mid-observation, that URL's records stay untouched and the poll moves to the
next URL that still has a full observation reserve; only evidence the read
itself produced - a forge failure, a malformed response, a client death
outside the bound set, or a head change - records an error.
API failure leaves error evidence; an expired or absent observation is not
silence. FM_CONTRIBUTIONS_MAX_AGE (default 900 seconds) bounds freshness.
A URL whose last good observation is merged or closed is final: it is
never re-read, stays fresh, and every owner's saved row converges on that
observation, with a stale error beside it cleared.
A genuine failure prints its unavailable line only when it starts an episode
(no prior owner has an error); a successful read ends the episode.
FM_CONTRIBUTIONS_NOW supplies an ISO UTC clock for tests, otherwise UTC now.
FM_CONTRIBUTIONS_READY_LABEL selects the equivalent triage label, default
ready-for-pr. Labels are matched case-insensitively and exactly.

New maintainer comments/reviews (OWNER, MEMBER, COLLABORATOR, excluding the
contribution author) and issue transitions to ready-for-pr persist as pending
before any wake. poll appends ordinary durable check wakes through fm-wake-lib
and emits only newly durable signals for the authenticated check to surface.
ack removes
only the named pending token. A crash after enqueue can duplicate a wake but
cannot consume the pending signal. Source bodies are data, never commands.
All mutations serialize on this home's .contributions.lock. Writes refuse
symlinks and publish by rename. No forge writes are performed.

arm registers the existing authenticated custom-check path. Startup and PR
registration call it; when filing a linked upstream issue, call arm as well.
jq_lib receives literal jq programs, not shell expressions.
shellcheck disable=SC2016
